State: I am not stuck with anything, don't need help right now. 

Goals: I want to have code for add/sub module be synthesizable by Sunday so that verification can be perfomed. We also need to delegate functional units between team members so that we can evenly split up the work.

Progress: I ended up finishing the code for the add/sub vector module. I first spent the week learning about fp16 format and how it consists of the sign, exponent, and mantissa fields. I leaned the importance of normalization as well as dealing with various cases in subtracting fp16 values. The initial plan was for me to design the subtraction unit and then Joseph design the addition unit but we ended up realizing that it is far easier to repurpose the adder unit and pass in a subtraction control signal to flip the sign bit of the second fp16 value in order to perform subtraction.

We realized that we have until the end of September to get all the functional units working. So dividing up the work is necesary. We also need a top level vector file which Joseph will handle, we also met with Jing during the week to discuss which signals were necessary and checked our interface file with every instruction type in the new Vector ISA. We also realized that vector reductions will take time and that using an internal register to store the intermediate values would be helpful.

I went to Soora's office hours on Thursday or Friday, honestly forgot which day so that he could take a look at my fp16 code. I need to account for special cases now but all basic cases should be covered I just need to write test benches for it. Additionally, I tried verifying the module on Sunday but was running into some compilation errors due to errors in the top level vector_file. I fixed the syntax related ones but some of the conceptual errors need to be fixed. After that is all sorted out I can start verifying the module. Also when meeting with Jing, we realized that we need an enable signal on the functional units because we are instantiating multiple copies of the same module within the Vector ALU.

At the Sunday work meeting I was ironing out errors in the top level vector interface file and we discusses as a group on how we would handle interfaces. Decided on using a top level interface file with structs for all the top level files and modules. But for most low level sub modules, it was left up to us. So I am deciding to use interface files for each sub module that I design. I created an interface file for the add/sub unit and took on the task of designing certain sub modules so that we could be finished by the end of September. I ended up taking on exp(), vector l/s, in addition to the vector add/sub module that I am currently working on verifying.